#summary Invoking SADI services with execution parameters
#sidebar SADITrail_Contents

= Invoking Services with Execution Parameters =

_Service execution parameters_ are settings that affect the behaviour of a service invocation and which are separate from the input data that is processed by the service.  A SADI service MAY have any number of execution parameters that are collectively described by a single _parameter OWL class_, as detailed in [ParameterOWLClass#The_Parameter_OWL_Class The Parameter OWL Class].

A client indicates values for service execution parameters when invoking a synchronous or asynchronous SADI service by including exactly one instance of the parameter OWL class in the input RDF document. All instances of the input OWL class within the input RDF document MUST be processed according to this shared set of execution parameters. If the client includes more than one instance of the parameter OWL class in the input RDF document, the behaviour of the service is undefined.

If no instance of the parameter OWL class is provided by the client, the service MUST use a suitable set of default values for the execution parameters. In the case where the parameter graph represents multiple independent parameters, the client MAY omit any component of the parameter graph corresponding to a particular parameter, in which case the service will use the corresponding default value instead. The metadata graph for every service that has execution parameters MUST either reference or directly include exactly one _default parameter instance_, as described in [ParameterOWLClass#The_Default_Parameter_Instance The Default Parameter Instance]. 

The following shows an example invocation of the parameterized "Hello, World!" service at http://sadiframework.org/examples/hello-param, which is a synchronous service. The client indicates that the output greetings should be returned in Spanish by including an appropriately constructed instance of the parameter OWL class in the input RDF document.

Request:

{{{
POST /examples/hello HTTP/1.1
Host: sadiframework.org
Accept: text/rdf+n3
Content-type: text/rdf+n3

@prefix hello: <http://sadiframework.org/examples/hello.owl#> .
@prefix input: <http://sadiframework.org/data/examples/hello-input.n3#> .
@prefix foaf: <http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/> .

[] a hello:SecondaryParameters; 
   hello:lang "es" .

input:GuyIncognito
   a hello:NamedIndividual;
   foaf:name "Guy Incognito" .
 
input:HomerSimpson
   a hello:NamedIndividual;
   foaf:name "Homer Simpson" .
}}}

Response:

{{{
HTTP/1.1 200 OK 
Content-type: text/rdf+n3

@prefix hello: <http://sadiframework.org/examples/hello.owl#> .
@prefix input: <http://sadiframework.org/data/examples/hello-input.n3#> .

input:GuyIncognito 
    a hello:GreetedIndividual;
    hello:greeting "Hola, Guy Incognito!" .

input:HomerSimpson
    a hello:GreetedIndividual;
    hello:greeting "Hola, Homer Simpson!" .
}}}
