#summary normative references for the SADI specification
#sidebar SADITrail_Contents

= Normative References =

== RFC2119 ==

Bradner, S., “Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels,” BCP 14, RFC 2119, 1997.

== WSDL ==

Chinnici, R., Moreau, J. J., Ryman, A., and Weerawarana, S., “Web Services Description Language (WSDL) Version 2.0 Part 1: Core Language,” W3C Recommendation, 2007.

== XML ==

Bray, T., Paoli, J., Sperberg-McQueen, C. M., Maler, E., and Yergeau, F., “Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Fifth Edition),” W3C Recommendation, 2008.
 
== REST ==

Fielding, R. T., “Architectural styles and the design of network-based software architectures,” University of California, 2000.

== RDF ==

Klyne, G. and Carroll, J. J., “Resource Description Framework (RDF): Concepts and Abstract Syntax,” W3C Recommendation, 2004.

== OWL ==

Motik, B. et al., “OWL 2 Web Ontology Language: Structural Specification and Functional-Style Syntax,” W3C Recommendation, 2009.

== HTTP ==

Fielding, R. et al., “Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1,” RFC 2616, 1999.

== XML Schema ==

Thompson, H. S., Beech, D., Maloney, M., and Mendelsohn, N., “XML Schema Part 1: Structures Second Edition,” W3C Recommendation, 2004.

== SAWSDL ==

Farrell, J. and Lausen, H., “Semantic Annotations for WSDL and XML Schema,” W3C Recommendation, 2007.

== OWL-S ==

Martin, D. et al., “OWL-S: Semantic markup for web services,” W3C Member Submission, 2004.

== WSMO ==

De Bruijn, J. et al., “Web Service Modeling Ontology (WSMO),” W3C Member Submission, 2005.
