uPANOMATCH should not match.
St. John's Wort - Avoid mixing with any prescription medications. In
particular, avoid taking St. John's Wort (SJW) and:a. Antidepressantsb. B.
Indinavir sulfate (Crixivan), a protease inhibitor used to treat HIVc. Digoxin
(Lanoxicaps, Lanoxin), a drug used to increase the force of contraction of
heart muscle and to regulate heartbeatsd. Theophylline (Slo-bid, Theo-Dur) an
asthma medicatione. Cyclosporin (Neoral, Sandimmune, SangCya), an
immunosuppressantf. ChemotherapySJW has been shown to affect your body's
metabolism of all of these drugs. Many other drugs are likely to be affected
too. Until more is know about SJW's ability to alter the metabolism of
pharmaceutical medications, it is probably best not to combine such medications
with SJW.Also, the combination of SJW with some antidepressants, such as
selective seratonin reuptake inhibitors, may cause an excess of seratonin
(seratonin syndrome). Typical symptoms include headache, stomach upset and
restlessness."Let me tell you about Hypericum, also known as St. John's Wort.
My reference is The Principles and Practice of Phytotherapy by Simon Mills and
Kerry Bone.*St. John's Wort's chief action is as an antiviral. It has
demonstrated its effectiveness in vitro and in clinical practice against herpes
simplex virus types 1 and 2, parainfluenza virus, vaccinia virus, and several
other variations of enveloped viruses. ("Enveloped" simply describes the
structure of the various viruses.) It also demonstrated potent activity in the
test tubes and in humans against several retroviruses, including HIV. This
anti-retrovirus activity increased with exposure to light. That means St.
John's is a great herb to use for many, but not all viruses.Secondarily, St.
John's Wort has antidepressant activity through many mechanisms. It inhibits
uptake of noradrenaline, seratonin and dopamine in humans. It is a weak MAO
inhibitor. "Results from comparative trials suggest that Hypericum (St. John's)
may work as well as standard antidepressants." St. John's Wort can be used for
mild to moderate depression and is inappropriate for severe depression.Thirdly,
St. John's Wort has demonstrated anticancer activity (human stomach and colon
cell lines) without any toxic effects on normal cells.Additionally, St. John's
extract has shown to be effective against a number of bacteria (Gram negative
and gram-positive) including Staphylococcus aureus, E. coli and Pseudomonas
aeruginosa.St. John's Wort has low toxicity. Prolonged use may result in a
state of sensitivity to sunlight. The concern about liver toxicity refers to a
study of HIV-positive patients who had mild reversible liver enzyme elevations
that returned to baseline after discontinuation of St.John's Wort. After
reviewing 3250 patients using St. John's, 2.4% experienced either minor stomach
upset or an allergic reaction such as itchiness. This is 10X less than the side
effects normally protracted with orthodox antidepressants.So what does this
mean? St. John's Wort has demonstrated anti-viral, anti-bacterial, anticancer
and anti-depressant activity with a potential of 2.4% of those taking it
getting some sort of minor side effect that reverses with
discontinuation.Should it be used with anti-depressants? Probably not. It's
better to try a good quality St. John's for 4-6 weeks and then to move onto the
conventional drugs.Should it be used with Indinavir? I worked at an HIV clinic
for two years. We used St. John's with great results right alongside
conventional anti-virals with no adverse interaction. The major side-effects of
Indinavir are headaches, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, dizziness and insomnia.
Again, after consulting with your physician, you may consider trying a good
quality St. John's Wort with regular monitoring.What about Digoxin and St.
John's? This is probably referring to a small (162) study of in which St.
John's demonstrated its ability to promote stable heart function while
decreasing depression. So, yes, it's an herb trying to stabilize the organism
and may tonify the heart. This is a beneficial side effect.Why is Theophylline,
primarily an asthmatic drug, listed? Probably for the same reason as digoxin.
Theophylline can cause life-threatening ventricular arrythmias. (And frankly,
don't use St. John's when using Theophylline because if the ventricular
arrythmias occur, St. John's will be blamed.)Should St. John's be used with
immune suppressants such as Cyclosporin? Absolutely not. The overwhelming
majority of medicinal herbs should be avoided with immune suppressants. Herbs
strengthen the human organism. They would work directly against drugs designed
to weaken the human organism.What about using St. John's with chemotherapy? In
my practice, I tend to avoid most herbs during the actual process of
chemotherapy. I use them before hand to build up the body and afterward to
repair the damage to the normal cells.Periodically, the pharmaceutical industry
feels threatened by a natural product and goes after it in a very deliberate
way. About 10 years ago, it was L-Tryptophan. L-Tryptophan was an inexpensive
amino acid that was extremely effective in increasing seratonin levels and was
virtually without side effects. A Japanese company produced a single bad batch
after failing to complete the chemical process and several deaths occurred. The
FDA was able to trace the bad batch back to the Japanese company, but still
decided to ban the supplement.Two years ago, the media flooded the public with
warnings that St. John's Wort would cause birth control pills to fail resulting
in a host of unwanted pregnancies. When the pregnancies didn't occur, the
pharmaceuticals tried a different angle. If it were patentable and the
pharmaceutical companies could make money off of it, this Internet email
warning about herbs would not have occurred. Consider Viagra. It has caused
over 60 deaths and continues to be on the market.*The specific section on St.
John's Wort that I am referencing is supported by 120 medical citations from
various international medical and scientific sources such as The Lancet,
Antiviral Research, Pharmocychiatry, The First National Conference on Human
Retroviruses and Related Infections (1993), AIDS Treatment News and about 80
European medical journals (whose titles I was unable to translate). (The U.S.
government has only recently established funding for researching unpatentable
natural medicine while the European, Chinese, Japanese and Australian
governments have provided this for years.)
