#summary HOWTO deploy SADI services to OpenShift PaaS.

  # [https://openshift.redhat.com/community/developers/install-the-client-tools Install the OpenShift Client Tools]
  # [https://openshift.redhat.com/app/account/new Sign up for OpenShift]
  # [https://openshift.redhat.com/app/console/application_types/diy-0.1 Create a new DIY application]
  # Check out/clone your application's repository
  # Apply the [https://sadi.googlecode.com/files/diy-0.1_to_jetty.patch DIY-to-Jetty patch] to your application's repository
    {{{
      git apply diy-0.1_to_jetty.patch
    }}}
  # Add your SADI service webapp source code to your application's repository. If your SADI service code is in source control (as it should be), you can just check out a copy. If not, you can copy the SADI service project directory (running mvn clean in the project beforehand is a good idea). Your webapp must work with the Jetty Maven plugin — specifically, it must be able to successfully execute the `jetty:start` and `jetty:stop` goals (requires jetty-maven-plugin-7.6.0 or later) and it must respect the `jetty.host` and `jetty.port` parameters. If you have no existing configuration for the jetty-maven-plugin, you can copy the following `<plugin>` block into the `<plugins>` section of your webapp's `pom.xml` file:
    {{{
      <plugin>
        <groupId>org.mortbay.jetty</groupId>
        <artifactId>jetty-maven-plugin</artifactId>
        <version>7.6.5.v20120716</version>
        <configuration>
          <connectors>
            <connector implementation="org.eclipse.jetty.server.nio.SelectChannelConnector">
              <host>${jetty.host}</host>
              <port>${jetty.port}</port>
            </connector>
          </connectors>
          <stopPort>15001</stopPort>
          <stopKey>(worker hello)</stopKey>
        </configuration>
      </plugin>
    }}}
  # Add your webapp project directory to your application's repository and commit.
    {{{
      git add SADI_SERVICES_PROJECT_DIRECTORY
      git commit -a -m "Added SADI services webapp"
    }}}
  # Push your application's repository to deploy the application. If you make changes to your SADI service code, just commit and push those changes to redeploy the updated application. 