#summary A collection of primary documentation for the SADI standard
#sidebar SADITrailContents

= Introduction =

Existing standards for web service semantics (e.g.: OWL-S) attempt to provide a framework that can describe all kinds of web service behaviour.  Bioinformatics web services tend to display only a subset of this behaviour; specifically, they tend to focus on providing data, either from pre-existing databases or from analysis performed on the spot.  Consequently, most bioinformatics web services are stateless and atomic and can ignore much of the architecture the standards provide.  Not surprisingly, the bioinformatics community has been slow to adopt these complicated standards.  There is just not enough to gain from the amount of work to be done.

Other attempts to simplify the semantics of bioinformatics web services (e.g.: BioMoby, MyGrid) have focused on helping people discover which services are available and learn what they do.  This has generally been accomplished through community tagging and annotation of the service operation, leaving the description of the service interface to the WSDL or a human-readable API document.  Unfortunately, this is somewhat at odds with the idea of the Semantic Web, which is to allow automated agents to process data and make inferences without human involvement.  It is somewhat at odds even with the simpler idea of linked data, since the relationship between the input to a service and the corresponding output is not clear.

SADI (Semantic Automated Discovery and Integration) is a set of best practices designed to address these shortcomings and enhance automated discovery and interoperability of web services using Semantic Web standards.  SADI services consume and produce RDF data, using OWL to describe the exact data required or generated.  This means that automated discovery and integration of SADI services are the same as every other task on the Semantic Web.  At the same time, SADI aims to make it easy for data providers to make their resources available on the Semantic Web by introducing as few additional requirements as possible.  If a provider requires more complexity, OWL-S or some any other scheme can be used alongside SADI.

Every input to a SADI service can be seen as an RDF graph rooted at a particular node and the corresponding output is another RDF graph rooted at the same node.  This means that the relationship between input and output is explicitly encoded by the service and the semantics of the service operation are completely transparent to automated agents.  This, in turn, makes service discovery and integration very easy.