#summary Introduction to the SADI RDFPath.

= Summary =

An RDFPath is a selection/structure-description tool for RDF analogous to XPath for XML.

= Motivation =

We need a shorthand for reading/building complex structures in RDF.  XPath is insufficient even if the RDF is serialized as XML because we need to be able to select only those values of a property that have a certain type.

= Details = 

An RDFPath is just a list of `[property, class, property, class, ...]`.  There must always be an even number of elements.  If a class is ever null, it means that all values of the property are selected or an individual with no class is created.

An RDFPath will usually be constructed from a list of strings (or a single comma-separated string).  In this case, the URIs of the properties and classes are used and "`*`" indicates a null class as described in the previous paragraph.

= Example =

The following code:
{{{
	RDFPath path = new RDFPath(
		"http://semanticscience.org/resource/SIO_000008", 
			"http://semanticscience.org/resource/CHEMINF_000018", 
		"http://semanticscience.org/resource/SIO_000300", 
			"http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#string"
	);
	Model model = ModelFactory.createDefaultModel();
	Resource instance = model.createResource();
	path.addValueRootedAdd(instance, model.createTypedLiteral("CCO"));
}}}
Results in the following RDF:
{{{
@prefix sio: <http://semanticscience.org/resource/> .

[]	sio:SIO_000008 [
		a sio:CHEMINF_000018 ;
		sio:SIO_000300 "CCO"^^<http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#string> .
	] .
}}}

For more information, see the Javadoc for the ca.wilkinson.sadi.rdfpath.RDFPath class (in the sadi-common library).